exam photo platform ui/ux direction


1-so, I want to make a world-class product. I mean the ui/ux should be so good, polished, premium that anyone who comes to our site, feels good, feels welcome and feels that the money that they are paying for the seamless and smooth experience is justified. not like any other vibecoded website, we can at least make our ui/ux excellent. 

2-research top saas websites that are visually striking and well acclaimed for their ui/ux. research the feel, the details, the experience, everything- then after taking inspiration we will build our own. 

3-the website should be wel-structured. on the landing page hero section, it should let the viewers know what it does in a very creative way. copywriting should be top-notch, world-class

4-there are some things that I would like to include:

5-what problem are we solving, why did we develop this- students go to different sites to make their photo compatible, but many a times one platform does not give them the complete output, they take output from one and put it in the other and take out from there and then put it somewhere else. it is a very tedious process. and nowadays writing proper prompt to ai should also be done carefully, and ai can remove background but free ai tools wont resize your image, alter dimension, resolution or compress and rename your image. give some real facts about how many students are disqualified for non-compliant uploads- photo, signature, documents. or you would go to the one who would take a lot from you just to generate the outputs which we are charging only Rs. 3. and with that we also provide pdf conversion- proper compliant version for free- only if you pay and take our service. the existing service providers which are available for free just show you that your photo is ready, but it is really not, they just give you to crop and that's all, the background not changed, the face coverage % not taken care of, they doo not flag if a photo is not appropriate to upload- but we do that. what we are charging is just compute cost that will go to run our GPUs to provide you the image. if you do not value your time, then you can roam around 5 different websites to get it done whereas here you can get it done in seconds. sometimes you would need to change the format as well, jpg to png, png to jpg- no hassle, we got your back.

6-(you can find out many more problems if you try)- and we should list these problems as a story, in an interesting way, not just text, text and text- doddles, animations, micro-interactions, illustrations, etc. 

7-what do we provide as service to be displayed in a similar way as above. how it works. the complete workflow. I need a before after feature dragging the line would show transition between them. compliant to non-compliant

8-pricing- Rs. 3 for one, and Rs. 5 for two (photo, signature)- slash/strike off the prices from Rs. 4 and Rs. 8 respectively. and with them all pdfs will ve made compliant for free and if there is thumb impression or any other photo conversion we will charge Rs. 8 (from Rs. 10)- we provide everything compliant that an exams needs from you.

9-the services should be structured well, with premium ui and ux. 

10-give options to select which services they want to avail

11-we have to introduce an intelligent lighting adjustment system. in which just by basic adjustments we can make the photo conditions better. the model will analyze what this photo requires and do it accordingly. if the photo is perfect and does not require anything, then our model will do no change. there will be an option to toggle on or off the intelligent adjustment which can be controlled by the user, and ultimately it will be their call to aplly that or not. if the button stays on before payment then we apply it or if it remains off we do not. we need to design and build and integrate this this system.

12-for every exam- we will do a research and find out interesting facts about them, for all of them, interesting facts, tips and tricks or something helpful regarding that particular exam which students will feel genuine, trustworthy and helpful. they will be displayed in carousel sliding texts

13-while the photo is uploaded, show that and on the other hand show the photo compliant photo being made, literally show it, I mean show the photo coming alive. if that is not possible do this- keep it blurred, run some loading or something else animations and run a loader around it to show how much is done to get a real time feedback. this will keep the users connected. 

14-then you review the preview image with all the major compliances checked. and then they pay, payment gateway comes, payment made and then in the final page the deliverables are provided to be downloaded, mailed, or sent through WhatsApp. before payment warn them the photo will stay for 30 mins, you come back you get the photo, and also give option to extend the time, if any user wants to extend this time period. and in the final page too, show this when the photo will expire. or if they provide the email and WhatsApp, we will send it over there. then no issues of them not getting the deliverables even after paying. 

15-the final page should be very visually appealing, attractive, warm. it should also give good wishes for their exams in a very creative way- animations, doodles, illustrations, micro-interactions. 

16-a very classic, modern, design heavy, creative footer to be designed. 

17-typography will play a very important role. so that has to be done very wisely, carefully.  I am talking about both design and copywriting.

18-so bottom line- I want a very good ui.ux not just some text and images- the experience should be immersive and users should find them engrossed with the platform, it happens when you like the ui/ux of a platform you tend to spend some more time exploring and admiring the goodness. I want the similar thing. 

19-Try to amalgamate all these which ones go with each other and they complement each other. 

Bauhaus style
Dark mode/Light mode
Bold Typography
Neumorphism
Glassmorphism
animation. motion design
illustrations
doddles
micro-interactions
micro-handling animations
Material Design
Claymorphism
Neobrutalism
Aurora UI
Minimalism
Retro-Futurism (Synthwave/Cyberpunk)


20- and keep whatever the existing information is provided in the website but in a better manner that complements the new design system. 






so what I want is a wholesome experience for the users. the website should feel premium, no ai-slop, no lagging, because we are expecting a large volume of users eventually. the user workflow should be very smooth and supportive. it should present the story of the problem that is faced by crores of students during exam application. and we are solving that. we can convince them that rs. 3 can save your career of 3 years or rs. 3000 or something like that too. 

I need a center aligned hero section design. with a big search bar. and hero heading in bold that tells the picture/story completely 



user comes to the website- sees the hero section- can search for any exams and we will have that. if we do not have that- a dedicated page will be designed for it to let the user know that we are working on it and will add it soon. also add a form to fetch the exam name that the user was searching for but not available and the email id to notify when available. 

and on the landing page, scrolling down will reveal what we do, how we do, what problem we are solving, why are we doing this, pricing, our story, not in an ai-slop way, but in a professional editorial way. with exceptional copywriting that instantly connects with the reader. with attractive visuals- doodles, graphics, illustrations, drawings, animations, micro-animations, interactivity, everything. to make it creative and different. 

then a footer that is not industry-standard, but it cool, something thought, designed and build from the expert-designer's perspective. something that is unique and creative. 

we will have privacy policy and terms & conditions and refund policy too. 

a support, redressal, request forum where people can raise queries and address issues and grievances. 

so now let's talk about the flow:

-user searches for an exam, finds it, clicks on it and it taken to the exam page- where everything, every information about the exam is visible in well-structured manner. every component and every information should have its place and should justify the use-case, position, placement and existence. not like anything that is irrelevant, decorative or dummy thing present. everything should be functional and should have purpose. 

-in a very clean, modern, creative way, with exceptional design style, not in a normal predictive way, the rules will be displayed with visual references, what to do and what not to. research different exams how the visual examples are given and try to adapt that style. 

-every click should have a welcoming effect, every button, every transitions, every reveal, every hover will carry a premium feel- should involve micro-interactions/micro-animations/effects- subtle not too much to crash the website or cause lag. 

-every section should feel dedicatedly curated, designed and built for the respective section specially- all sections should share a common language, yet feel unique and different. by section i mean- photo, signature, documents and all. 

-so show the user that if we are doing the full kit we are charging this and if you want to do only this we are charging this. design the UX in such language that we try to push the user to buy the kit, on each step we would advertise the benefits of the kit, and if somewhere there is only one photo to process and there are pdfs with it, then we will charge rs.3 (discounted from rs.5 or 4 i have discussed earlier)

-and show them the value we are creating. show them if they do not do it from here, they will have to roam around to collect these. 

-and make sure these pdf things are present, like- pdf to image, image to pdf, re-arrangement, omission, joiner/merger pages. because that i what many a times needed. and show them that we are providing it for free. 

-the experience of everything should be premium. there should be attention to details that if anyone sees it will appreciate that wow they have thought to this minute level too. we believe in perfection, so that should reflect in our website's every part too. 

-when any process is on going or taking place, there should be some visual interaction between the process and the user. something that would make them stay connected.

-so there are a lot of things to take care of. design is our highest priority after the engine. 

-after selecting an exam check all the required files initially. now the user needs to uncheck what he does not need. initially we will select the kit and then the user itself needs to change if he needs individual files. and accordingly the prices will change too. 

-and then the review section before placing the order. all information with email, WhatsApp and warning of deletion. then user pays.

-the payment sequence should be designed highly creatively and playfully with cool animations and motion graphics. we can also display the specific exam tips, tricks, interesting facts, etc. along with the animation

-these extra things like tips, tricks, interesting facts, only for respective exams and exam-specific things gives us a leverage to become a premium service provider rather than an another ai-slopped website. so display them on the specific exam page too. place, position it such a way that i feels special and gets the attention, but it should not be the main subject matter, yet it should be center of interest.

-and then when payment successfully happens, again do the same thing- highly creatively and playfully with cool animations and motion graphics to be shown where user can download the files and give warning again and view other details, and industry standard details. 

-design pages, animations, motion graphics, illustrations, doodles, drawings for situations like- errors too. errors, unsuccessful payment, other issues, etc. let there be any issue, but it should look like pre-handled and we knew about that so we designed these beautiful visuals to support them with creative copywriting.

-i strictly want to let you know what, i do not want those AI-section labeling which have been the case with every ai-coded websites, unnecessary labeling, decorative labeling, and unnecessary numbering. and most importantly- the typography. it should be the most unique thing about our website- i can say what's ai-coded, generic, common, slop instantly, so beware and choose the fonts wisely and use them more wisely together. there are a crores of fonts. explore a bit and you will do good. keep me away from those generic typography and copywriting. copywriting is another important part of this talk. copywriting anywhere should instantly connect, not confuse. 